---
layout: post
title: The Antihero's Journey
excerpt_separator: "<!--/excerpt-->"
---
Certain qualities sink in late in life. But better late than never. When I was 22, I was far from being a traveler, cosmopolitan, a language learning lover-kind of person. My world was reduced to watching films or documentaries all day long for fun and going back and forth from the University of Lima to my dad’s home, while being financially support by my family. Just a spoiled little brat, in a nutshell.
<!--/excerpt-->

Imagine the culture shock I went through when for the first time I left my comfortable life style to live in isolated ski resort in rural Snoqualmie Pass, WA. This was part of a exchange program offer to college students who wanted to have a cultural, different experience abroad. The idea of this program was to submerse yourself into the middle class, small town, northwest american culture, learn their language and embrace their life style. And! as a bonus, to learn how to financially support yourself and clean after your mess (because having a maid was too much of a luxury for the standard american.)

One the most surprising findings for us international students was seeing how naive, how local these Americans were. They came from villages surrounding the ski resort, like North-bend and Easton. They didn’t know where other countries were (outside of Canada and Mexico), and couldn’t even speak Spanish. Or any other language for that matter. Some international found that cute, an “awww, you poor thing” kind of feeling. Honestly, I just thought it was kind of sad. On the other hand, I won’t denied I took a bit of advantage from this.

It was very easy to impress these villagers telling them stories about the outside world. So I must admit, I’d use this tactic to charm some handsome locals, who were fascinated by my narrative and my foreigner’s looks. Those simple tactics worked for me until I met Mike.

Mike was a well educated American, who came from a decent size city, Seattle. He spoke four languages and was a worldly man at his short age. He was only staying in the mountain that winter to do a lot of snowboarding and planning to go back to the city as soon the season was over. Mike didn’t find me as sophisticated as others, AND even refer to us international students as the “know-it-alls”.Aside that, he was really nice, and the more he ignore me the more I cling to him, naturally. We did had a short romance. A romance where I was so into him but trying to play it cool, and where he like me quite a bit and WAS cool.

Once the season was over, I went back to Lima to finish college, he went to China following his traveler nature. If it wasn’t for this guy I wouldn’t be here now. He taught me that no matter how comfortable and privilege your life is back at home there is much more out there that you are missing for not taking any risks. So there you go: To be in an uncomfortable place /position became my goal. I left my dad’s home, network of friends, and headed to China where this guy Mike was. Don’t panic, I didn’t arrive unexpected. He invited me to come over, for A short visit. But I had other plans.
