---
layout: post
title: My Chinese Experience
excerpt_separator: "<!--/excerpt-->"
---
After a 33 hour flight, I arrived to Nanjing, China. How young and excited must I had been to survive such long trip, with bright eyes and a big smile ready to jump into Mike’s arms.
<!--/excerpt-->
He was waiting for me at the visitor’s welcome area in the airport. For a while I was concerned thinking that I wouldn’t be able to recognize him among the crow after not seeing him for 2 years. But of course his unique “Jew” features distinguish him from the locals. Mike received me with a big hug and passionate kiss, which took me by surprise, since we hadn’t been “together” in so long, but knowing how to break the ice is his forte.

When looking for a cab to head to his apartment, Mike tried to negotiate with a cab driver a bit unsuccessfully. He had been living in china for two years now and his mandarin was very efficient. I could tell that the cab driver understood perfectly what mike was saying, but still, he seemed so puzzle that Mike was doing all the talking and not me. Mike would talk and the driver would reply back to me. My first lesson in China was finding out that certain indigenous people from the Americas, such as myself, with trace of Mongoloid features are not seen any different from any other Chinese person living in China, considering how many ethnicities China has besides Han Chinese.

We made it home. But from then on, I would be reminded almost every day about my not so “international” looks. I became the Peruvian girl in China that passed by Chinese, but who couldn’t speak any Chinese, leading locals to believe I was a peasant, who spoke a dialect. At the beginning I found it amusing and strange. But towards the end of my trip, I got a bit fed up with this situation. I called them ignorants and shallow to justify the reason for Chinese people to only focus in my looks, and not my manners and clothes, which usually distinguish foreigners.

The last straw happened when I was travelling by myself in train from Shanghai to Nanjing. I had lost my ticket to ride the train and tried to pass the security, explaining in English that I had lost my ticket (Mike told that should be enough because it happens to foreigners all the time and is not a big deal.) But security wouldn’t be so understanding with THIS foreigner. Two officers pull me apart and brought me to their office saying upset things in Mandarin again and again, and me repetting constantly one of the only few Chinese phrases I knew: Wo bu hui shuo hanyu. In their office they had a few other locals retained. By their looks, I could tell they belonged to the poor working class coming from the country side. Unlike me, they were not fighting back and seem resign with their situation.Even though I couldn’t understand i single word of what the two officers were saying, their pointing fingers at me and tone of voice made so clear that what they were saying was: don’t be smart girl, speak Chinese, pay your ticket! the whole scene had me so confuse and scared that it took a while to realize I only needed to grab my phone and call Mike to ask them to talk to them. He explained. They let me go reluctantly like they were not completely convinced who Mike say I was. No apologize either.

Mike, on the other hand, had the opposite problem I had in China. He was constantly reminded in many ways how different he was. Chinese people would bluntly stare at him in subways, they would praise him for been an smart left-handed Jew (Lucky he had the two attributes regarded as a sign of being intelligent in China), and would speak back in English to him when he was perfectly capable to communicate in Mandarin. He would grunt whenever a child passing by next to us in the street would look at him with excitement and say “hello, hello!” to show off to his parents the only English word that they taught him. Both of us probably wanted to exchange places. Not being able to completely feel at home in China, made Mike and I feel closer together. We spent most of our days enjoying each others company, like an already married couple, staying at home binge watching TV shows, getting food delivery, spending too much time in bed talking and warming ourselves up from the cold winter in Nanjing that offered no heaters. And from time to time going out with Mike’s friends in Nanjing to try new restaurants and hit the "dirty" KTVs. All his friends were Americans, similar age and excellent Mandarin speakers.I would have had a hard time believing that they could speak Mandarin without having local friends, but luckily they all had local girlfriends who spoke little to no English. That’ll do.

By the end of my trip, I left with practically little to none Mandarin vocabulary, but much better grasp of the English language. As much as China was a new and exciting experience, so it was living with Mike and being part of his group. An american group for which I had to improve my English and learn how to interact with them. It was a double cultural experience. An experience that brought me closer to Mike and consolidated our relationship much more than I expected.
