---
layout: post
title: Finding Our Way Home
excerpt_separator: "<!--/excerpt-->"
---
Mike moved to Lima to be with me. One thing is to visit a guy in another country because you have a crush on him, and one completely different to see him move in to your country to settle down.
<!--/excerpt-->

It was exciting the process of leaving my dad’s house, finding an apartment to live with my boyfriend. Things were moving fast and I didn’t have time to consider the big step we were both taking.

In the year and 3 months that we lived together in Lima, we had so many plans, fun and fights that it caught me by surprise when he said one day: I miss home (Portland, Oregon), and I want to come back. It was the perfect time for him to miss home, since his brother-in-law in Portland was looking for a new assistant and had offered him the job.

Knowing Mike, it would have never occurred to me to put the word "insurance" and "Mike" in the same sentence. But Mike missed home and being an insurance man suddenly didn’t sound such crazy idea. I guess I never expected for him to feel like at home in Peru, neither to fall in love with his job in Lima, that was mediocre and run by a micromanager hateful man.

So one day he took the risk and said to me: I’m moving back to Portland, do you want to come with me… married? When layed like that the situation,I didn’t seem appropriate to be jumping up and down saying yes, yes. My answer was a rational and calm as his proposal: let me consider this and I’ll get back to you.

I’m not a romantic woman, I don’t care for extravagant proposals or dreamy weddings. All I knew is that I wanted to be with Mike, and if that meant leaving my comfort zone, it would have to be one or the other.

My answer was yes. We had a small, simple civic wedding and then it came the visa process. All of sudden I was living in Portland. No job, no friends or family. Just a brand-new husband to start a new home.
